Expanding Your Repertoire
Now that we’ve walked through the basics,
let’s look at some ways
to expand our repertoire.
First, let’s look at some
Apache alternatives.
Kali includes several tools
that can create HTTP servers.
This is especially helpful
if we need to quickly stand up
HTTP servers on arbitrary ports.
For example, we can start an HTTP server
on an arbitrary port in Python 2.x
by using the SimpleHTTPServer module
followed by the desired TCP port number.
The syntax is slightly different with
Python 3 as the module name is different.
Both commands will start an HTTP server
and host any files or directories
from the current working path.
PHP includes a built-in web server
that can be launched with the -S flag
followed by the address and port to use.
We can also launch an HTTP server
with a Ruby “one liner”.
The command requires
several flags including -run
to load un.rb,
which contains replacements
for common Unix commands,
-e httpd to run the HTTP server,
a dot to serve content
from the current directory
and -p to set the TCP port.
We can also use busybox
to run an HTTP server
with httpd as the function,
-f to run interactively
and -p to specify the TCP port to use.
Next, let’s discuss PHP wrappers.